---
layout: posts
title: "Testing, is this thing on?"
date: 2018-07-23 10:00:00 -0700
categories: test
---

I've been wanting to make a blog to document all of my tinkering and hopefully help a few people out who stumble into the same issues I come across!

I wanted something that I can quickly get up and running, as I don't want to fuss with hosting and software installation (for now, at least).

A coworker of mine mentioned [Hexo](https://hexo.io), a simple static site generator. I thought this was an awesome idea, but I also noticed that GitHub Pages has Jekyll installed by default, which accomplishes much of the same tasks with much less installation. I may use Hexo at some point once I've fully dived into getting my blog up and running, but I figure this is a good place to start!

## Squashing all the bugs

As is the case with learning anything new (especially involving web development), I ran into issues and made a ton of mistakes trying to get this off the ground.

My first problem was that this post wasn't even showing up on the front page. Turns out, I was using the wrong theme to do so - I needed a theme that:
- had a post layout, indicated by `layout: posts` at the top of the page, under what's known as the "YAML Front Matter"
- would actually display posts on the front page, either via pagination or some other mechanism

I then discovered that making changes and pushing to GitHub to test them was far too tedious for little tweaks. Turns out, [you can install a local copy of your website and use Jekyll to test changes locally](https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-your-github-pages-site-locally-with-jekyll/), avoiding the need to push to GitHub to view every change you make.

I also wasn't a huge fan of any of the themes that GitHub Pages ships with by default. Luckily, it turns out [you can use any Jekyll theme by using the remote-themes plugin](https://blog.github.com/2017-11-29-use-any-theme-with-github-pages/). This was the start of another troubleshooting rabbit hole. It didn't look like any of the theme's resources were loading properly and my posts weren't appearing on the front page (again).

Like with many things in software development, if you're at the end of your wits with fixing a bug, sometimes it's best to just start over again. I deleted the first version, then followed this [beautiful documentation](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/docs/quick-start-guide/) to fork the theme's repository and make my own changes. Voila, everything started working properly!

## Further changes

Now that I have this up and running, I want to make a few changes.
- Add a teaser image at the top
- Edit my About page
- Build pages for my projects
- Play around with more theme configuration